---
layout: about
---

I am a historian of France currently affiliated with a Digital Humanities Project on the French Book Trade during the Enlightenment at Western Sydney University. My research is intensively archival and based in the methods of social and political history, but I tend to link my sources - manuscript provincial maps or parish assembly records, for example - to the history of ideas and technology. I teach in the History department at Bates College in Lewiston, Maine.
My book manuscript is a political and social history of highway construction in western France before the Revolution. I explore how and why the experience of building a highway changed from the early years of the 18th century to the end of the century, and the political significance of this provincial public works project. Using the archives of the public works administrations in the province of Brittany, this is the first book-length project with a focus on the forced labor system of the corvée in almost a century. More information about my dissertation and my book project can be found [**here**](http://kmcdono.com/book-project/).
I am completing articles on the history of road design in early modern Europe and the role of 18th-century road maps in the establishment of provinces as modern territorial regions.
My next major project will extend my work on the French highway corvée into the Atlantic. The relationship between labor systems and the local built environment in 18th c. western France resulted in general agreement about public utility until labor expectations exceeded local parish needs. The acceptance of forced labor was directly tied to status and state of physical structures deemed useful in the context of economic and cultural behaviors. How did this change in French settlements across the ocean? What assumptions about laborers and the physical fabric of communities transferred and which were rejected?
I write periodically on this blog about history research and teaching, higher ed, archives, and radio/podcasts.
During the 2014-15 academic year, I was a [Lecturer](https://undergrad.stanford.edu/programs/residential-programs/simile/simile-faculty) in a freshman residential program with a history of science, technology, and medicine theme ([Science in the Making Integrated Learning Environment, SIMILE](https://undergrad.stanford.edu/programs/residential-programs/science-making-integrated-learning-environment-simile)). In research-intensive composition courses, I helped students analyze how and why people in the past wrote about math, science or technology and, in turn, how they could develop as writers exploring the history of science. I was affiliated with the Program in Writing and Rhetoric at Stanford.
From June 2013-September 2014, I worked in the School of Humanities and Sciences Dean's Office at Stanford on projects related to undergraduate and graduate humanities education. I completed my PhD in History at Stanford in June 2013. At Stanford I was the co-founder of the Stanford History Archival Workshop, which, in addition to practical sessions about how to do archival research, brought together Bay area scholars and archivists to explore the history and the future of archives.

